In this video I'll explain Diodorus and resource fragmentation and how Deros can help in a high availability
event.
In the slide you see here we have a four host cluster of ESX 0 1 0 2 0 3 and 0 4.
And if you'll notice on host ESX size 0 4 I've got a really large virtual machine running now with a
high availability event.
We're potentially losing in ESX host.
So let's say in this scenario we lose host ESX size zero for that host is now failed and they have this
really large virtual machine that isn't going to fit comfortably on any of the surviving ESX I hosts.
Maybe I even have a reservation that will prevent it from booting on any of these other hosts.
This is called Resource fragmentation.
The remaining hosts have plenty of capacity to run this virtual machine.
However those resources are spread out in small chunks over a group of hosts so no single host has the
resources necessary to run this VM.
This is where DRM can help us.
If an ESX I host fails HLA is going to try to reboot those virtual machines on other hosts.
DRM us can move around virtual machines to consolidate the workloads on other hosts and make room for
this really large VM.
So I always say that HHN DNS are sort of like peanut butter and jelly.
They go good separately but they're best when they're put together.
And this is an example of that.
Ha won't perform as well if DRM is not enabled on this cluster as well.